# MODEL1301290000: MODEL1301290000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1301290000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1301290000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Wodke2013 - Genome-scale constraint-based model of M.pneumoniae energy
metabolism (iJW145)

A new genome-scale metabolic reconstruction of M.pneumoniae is used in
combination with external metabolite measurement and protein abundance
measurements to quantitatively explore the energy metabolism of this genome-
reduce human pathogen.

This model is described in the article:

[Dissecting the energy metabolism in Mycoplasma pneumoniae through genome-
scale metabolic modeling.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/23549481)

Wodke JA, Puchałka J, Lluch-Senar M, Marcos J, Yus E, Godinho M, Gutiérrez-
Gallego R, dos Santos VA, Serrano L, Klipp E, Maier T.

Mol Syst Biol. 2013;9:653.

Abstract:

Mycoplasma pneumoniae, a threatening pathogen with a minimal genome, is a
model organism for bacterial systems biology for which substantial
experimental information is available. With the goal of understanding the
complex interactions underlying its metabolism, we analyzed and characterized
the metabolic network of M. pneumoniae in great detail, integrating data from
different omics analyses under a range of conditions into a constraint-based
model backbone. Iterating model predictions, hypothesis generation,
experimental testing, and model refinement, we accurately curated the network
and quantitatively explored the energy metabolism. In contrast to other
bacteria, M. pneumoniae uses most of its energy for maintenance tasks instead
of growth. We show that in highly linear networks the prediction of flux
distributions for different growth times allows analysis of time-dependent
changes, albeit using a static model. By performing an in silico knock-out
study as well as analyzing flux distributions in single and double mutant
phenotypes, we demonstrated that the model accurately represents the
metabolism of M. pneumoniae. The experimentally validated model provides a
solid basis for understanding its metabolic regulatory mechanisms.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1301290000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1301290000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


